README.md, before:

# Introduction

## Basic Functionality

This project exposes a simple REST endpoint where the service `greeting` is available, but properly secured, at this address `http://hostname:port/greeting`
and returns a json Greeting message after the application issuing the call to the REST endpoint has been granted to access the service.

```json
{
    "content": "Hello, World!",
    "id": 1
}
```

The id of the message is incremented for each request. To customize the message, you can pass as parameter the name of the person that you want to send your greeting.

## Security Constraints

To manage the security, roles & permissions to access the service, a [Red Hat SSO](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en/red-hat-single-sign-on/7.0/securing-applications-and-services-guide/securing-applications-and-services-guide) backend will be installed and configured for this project.
It relies on the Keycloak project which implements the OpenId connect specification which is an extension of the Oauth2 protocol.

After a successful login, the application will receive an `identity token` and an `access token`.
The identity token contains information about the user such as username, email, and other profile information.
The access token is digitally signed by the realm and contains access information (like user role mappings).

This `access token` is typically formatted as a JSON Token that the Swarm application will use with its Keycloak adapter to determine what resources it is allowed to access on the application.
The configuration of the adapter is defined within the `app/src/main/resources/keycloak.json` file using these properties:

```
{
  "realm": "${sso.realm:realm}",
  "resource": "${sso.clientId:demoapp}",
  "realm-public-key": "${sso.realm-public-key:...}",
  "auth-server-url": "${sso.auth-server-url:http://localhost:8180/auth}",  
  "ssl-required": "external",  
  "credentials": {
    "secret": "${sso.secret:...}"
  }  
}

```

## Red Hat SSO

The security context is managed by Red Hat SSO using a realm (defined using the keycloak.realm property) where the adapter to establish a trusted TLS connection will use the Realm Public key defined using the `keycloak.realm-key` property.
To access the server, the parameter `auth-server-url` is defined using the TLS address of the host followed with `/auth`.
To manage different clients or applications, a resource has been created for the realm using the property `keycloak.resource`.
This parameter, combined with the `keycloak.credentials.secret` property, will be used during the authentication phase to log in the application.
If, it has been successfully granted, then a token will be issued that the application will use for the subsequent calls.

The request that is issued to authenticate the application is:

```
https://<SSO_HOST>/auth/realms/<REALM>/protocol/openid-connect/token?client_secret=<SECRET>&grant_type=password&client_id=CLIENT_APP
```

And the HTTP requests accessing the endpoint/Service will include the following Bearer Token:

```
http://<SWARM_APP>/greeting -H "Authorization:Bearer <ACCESS_TOKEN>"
```

The project is split into two Apache Maven modules - `app` and `sso`.
The `App` module exposes the REST Service using WildflySwarm.
The `sso` module contains the OpenShift objects required to deploy the Red Hat SSO Server 7.0.

The goal of this project is to deploy the quickstart in an OpenShift environment (online, dedicated, ...).

# Prerequisites

To get started with these quickstarts you'll need the following prerequisites:

Name | Description | Version
--- | --- | ---
[java][1] | Java JDK | 8
[maven][2] | Apache Maven | 3.2.x
[oc][3] | OpenShift Client | v3.3.x
[git][4] | Git version management | 2.x

[1]: http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/
[2]: https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi?Preferred=ftp://mirror.reverse.net/pub/apache/
[3]: https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/3.2/cli_reference/get_started_cli.html
[4]: https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git

In order to build and deploy this project, you must have an account on an OpenShift Online (OSO): https://console.dev-preview-int.openshift.com/ instance.

# OpenShift Online

1. Using OpenShift Online or Dedicated, log on to the OpenShift Server.

    ```bash
    oc login https://<OPENSHIFT_ADDRESS> --token=MYTOKEN` when you use OpenShift Online or Dedicated.
    ```

2. Create a new project on OpenShift.

    ```bash
    oc new-project <PROJECT_NAME>` and next build the quickstart
    ```

3. Build the quickstart.

    ```
    mvn clean install
    ```

# Deploy the Application

1. To deploy Red Hat SSO move to `sso` folder, and then use the Fabric8 Maven Plugin with the goals deploy and start:

    ```bash
    cd sso
    mvn -Dfabric8.namespace=<PROJECT_NAME> fabric8:deploy -Popenshift
    ```

2. Once the Red Hat SSO ods are ready, deploy the secured app, move to `app` folder, and then use the Fabric8 Maven Plugin with the goals deploy and start:

    ```bash
    cd app
    mvn -Dfabric8.namespace=<PROJECT_NAME> fabric8:deploy -Popenshift
    ```

3. Open the OpenShift web console to see the status of the app and the exact routes used to access the app's greeting endpoint, 
or to access the Red Hat SSO's admin console.

    Note: until [CLOUD-1166](https://issues.jboss.org/browse/CLOUD-1166) is fixed,
    we need to fix the redirect-uri in RH-SSO admin console, to point to our app's route.
    
    To do that, acccess the Red Hat SSO Admin Console at `http://SSO_HOST/auth` and update the `demoapp` settings
    ```
    Clients > Demoapp > Settings > Valid Redirect URIs     
    ```

# Access the service

If the pod of the Secured Swarm application is running like the Red Hat SSO Server,
you can access it by requesting a bearer token upfront. The supplied shell scripts demonstrate this:


```
cd scripts
. set_env_vars.sh 

./token_req.sh 

{"id":2,"content":"Hello World"}

```

Commit message:

Update docs to include the browser based scenario

README.md, after:

# Introduction

## Basic Functionality

This project exposes a simple REST endpoint where the service `greeting` is available, but properly secured, at this address `http://hostname:port/greeting`
and returns a json Greeting message after the application issuing the call to the REST endpoint has been granted to access the service.

```json
{
    "content": "Hello, World!",
    "id": 1
}
```

The id of the message is incremented for each request. To customize the message, you can pass as parameter the name of the person that you want to send your greeting.

## Security Constraints

To manage the security, roles & permissions to access the service, a [Red Hat SSO](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en/red-hat-single-sign-on/7.0/securing-applications-and-services-guide/securing-applications-and-services-guide) backend will be installed and configured for this project.
It relies on the Keycloak project which implements the OpenId connect specification which is an extension of the Oauth2 protocol.

After a successful login, the application will receive an `identity token` and an `access token`.
The identity token contains information about the user such as username, email, and other profile information.
The access token is digitally signed by the realm and contains access information (like user role mappings).

This `access token` is typically formatted as a JSON Token that the Swarm application will use with its Keycloak adapter to determine what resources it is allowed to access on the application.
The configuration of the adapter is defined within the `app/src/main/resources/keycloak.json` file using these properties:

```
{
  "realm": "${sso.realm:realm}",
  "resource": "${sso.clientId:demoapp}",
  "realm-public-key": "${sso.realm-public-key:...}",
  "auth-server-url": "${sso.auth-server-url:http://localhost:8180/auth}",  
  "ssl-required": "external",  
  "credentials": {
    "secret": "${sso.secret:...}"
  }  
}

```

## Red Hat SSO

The security context is managed by Red Hat SSO using a realm (defined using the keycloak.realm property) where the adapter to establish a trusted TLS connection will use the Realm Public key defined using the `keycloak.realm-key` property.
To access the server, the parameter `auth-server-url` is defined using the TLS address of the host followed with `/auth`.
To manage different clients or applications, a resource has been created for the realm using the property `keycloak.resource`.
This parameter, combined with the `keycloak.credentials.secret` property, will be used during the authentication phase to log in the application.
If, it has been successfully granted, then a token will be issued that the application will use for the subsequent calls.

The request that is issued to authenticate the application is:

```
https://<SSO_HOST>/auth/realms/<REALM>/protocol/openid-connect/token?client_secret=<SECRET>&grant_type=password&client_id=CLIENT_APP
```

And the HTTP requests accessing the endpoint/Service will include the following Bearer Token:

```
http://<SWARM_APP>/greeting -H "Authorization:Bearer <ACCESS_TOKEN>"
```

The project is split into two Apache Maven modules - `app` and `sso`.
The `App` module exposes the REST Service using WildflySwarm.
The `sso` module contains the OpenShift objects required to deploy the Red Hat SSO Server 7.0.

The goal of this project is to deploy the quickstart in an OpenShift environment (online, dedicated, ...).

# Prerequisites

To get started with these quickstarts you'll need the following prerequisites:

Name | Description | Version
--- | --- | ---
[java][1] | Java JDK | 8
[maven][2] | Apache Maven | 3.2.x
[oc][3] | OpenShift Client | v3.3.x
[git][4] | Git version management | 2.x

[1]: http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/
[2]: https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi?Preferred=ftp://mirror.reverse.net/pub/apache/
[3]: https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/3.2/cli_reference/get_started_cli.html
[4]: https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git

In order to build and deploy this project, you must have an account on an OpenShift Online (OSO): https://console.dev-preview-int.openshift.com/ instance.

# OpenShift Online

1. Using OpenShift Online or Dedicated, log on to the OpenShift Server.

    ```bash
    oc login https://<OPENSHIFT_ADDRESS> --token=MYTOKEN` when you use OpenShift Online or Dedicated.
    ```

2. Create a new project on OpenShift.

    ```bash
    oc new-project <PROJECT_NAME>` and next build the quickstart
    ```

3. Build the quickstart.

    ```
    mvn clean install
    ```

# Deploy the Application

1. To deploy Red Hat SSO move to `sso` folder, and then use the Fabric8 Maven Plugin with the goals deploy and start:

    ```bash
    cd sso
    mvn -Dfabric8.namespace=<PROJECT_NAME> fabric8:deploy -Popenshift
    ```

2. Once the Red Hat SSO ods are ready, deploy the secured app, move to `app` folder, and then use the Fabric8 Maven Plugin with the goals deploy and start:

    ```bash
    cd app
    mvn -Dfabric8.namespace=<PROJECT_NAME> fabric8:deploy -Popenshift
    ```

3. Open the OpenShift web console to see the status of the app and the exact routes used to access the app's greeting endpoint, 
or to access the Red Hat SSO's admin console.

    Note: until [CLOUD-1166](https://issues.jboss.org/browse/CLOUD-1166) is fixed,
    we need to fix the redirect-uri in RH-SSO admin console, to point to our app's route.
    
    To do that, acccess the Red Hat SSO Admin Console at `http://SSO_HOST/auth` and update the `demoapp` settings
    ```
    Clients > Demoapp > Settings > Valid Redirect URIs     
    ```

# Access the service

## Browser based access

Find out the route to the rest endpoint
```
oc get route swarm-secured-rest
swarm-secured-rest   <HOST_PORT>             swarm-secured-rest   8080   
```

Pointing your browser to <HOST_PORT> should redirect to Red Hat SSO for authentication. 
You can login with `admin:admin` and Red Hat SSO redirects you the REst endpoint. If everything works well you should receive a JSON response:
   
```
{"id":2,"content":"Hello World"}   
```

## Manually requesting a bearer token

If the pod of the Secured Swarm application is running like the Red Hat SSO Server,
you can access it by requesting a bearer token upfront. The supplied shell scripts demonstrate this:


```bash
cd scripts
. set_env_vars.sh 

./token_req.sh 

{"id":2,"content":"Hello World"}

```
